# Localization

There are several methods to localize content in your application. Below you can find some examples.

## Localization through Content Modules
Use this approach to localize content. It is the most common localization method used by content editors. It allows them to translate content without involving a developer.

This type of localization minimizes project customizations and keeps it clean and simple. You can create content and then translate it manually or through the Translation service.

### Manually
Sitefinity CMS enables content creators to localize their site in as many language versions as required. Using Sitefinity’s multilingual support, you can localize pages, content items, taxonomies, etc. Once you have configured your application to work with multiple languages, you can create, modify, and delete your content items or pages for specific languages.

In this approach, pages can be created via two different strategies: split or sync. Different translations for the split pages are independent of one another. Sync pages have a common widget structure and can have different widget content per language if needed. You can also override all translated versions with the current one by saving the widget content with the option "Save all translations."

### The Translations Service
The Translations service helps automate the process of translating your content items, pages, and templates. With this service, you can easily send multilingual content directly to external translation agencies.
For more information, see [Languages and Translations](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/multilingual-translate-your-website).

After translation, the localized version of the content is displayed on the frontend, depending on the currently selected language of the page. This is handled automatically by built-in widgets, such as the Content List or Image widget, and by custom widgets that use automatically generated widget designers.
For more information, see [Autogenerated field types](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/autogenerated-field-types).

## Localization through Widgets

Use this approach when you want to allow localization of specific widgets and their properties. This can be done by exposing the localized resources as properties in the widget designer. This allows non-developers to translate the properties manually through the widget designers.
For more information, see [Autogenerated field types](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/autogenerated-field-types).

After translation, the widget resolves the version of the properties for the current language of the page. Except for the Section widget, all other widgets support property localization, and each property can be localized independently. Additionally, when working on a synced page, you can override all translated versions with the current one by saving the widget with the option "Save all translations."

## Native Localization Implementation

By using this approach, you can localize any resource in your widget by using resource files for different cultures. There are two samples that demonstrate this behavior: the SSR sample with a custom implementation and the CSR sample with i18n.
You can find more information about them [here](/examples/src/localization/README.md).
